---
id: 117
title: 'Zacks estimates Willis Group Holdings EPS'
date: '2013-02-14T15:02:00+00:00'
author: admin
layout: post
guid: 'https://dev-git-up.pantheonsite.io/2013/02/14/zacks-estimates-willis-group-holdings-eps/'
permalink: /2013/02/14/zacks-estimates-willis-group-holdings-eps/
blogger_blog:
    - pub-1306355070136339.blogspot.com
blogger_author:
    - blogger
blogger_permalink:
    - /2013/02/zacks-estimates-willis-group-holdings.html
blogger_internal:
    - /feeds/2496420709098274749/posts/default/3658297390927683495
categories:
    - 'earnings release'
---

<div style="text-align: justify;">**Best insurance stock today – Zacks estimates Willis Group Holdings EPS :** Willis Group Holdings plc (WSH – Analyst Report) reported fourth-quarter 2012 adjusted net income from continuing operations of 45 cents per share, surpassing the Zacks Consensus Estimate by a penny. Results were in line with the year-ago earnings.</div><a name="more"></a>

<div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Including goodwill impairment charge of $2.62 per share, write-off of unamortized cash retention awards of 79 cents, 2012 cash bonus accrual of $1 per share, insurance recovery of 2 cents, loss on disposal of operations of 1 cent, deferred tax valuation allowance of 64 cents and dilutive impact of potentially issuable shares of 6 cents, Willis Group incurred a loss of $4.65 per share, compared with an income of 14 cents in the prior-year quarter.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"> **Operational Performance**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Total revenue in the quarter increased 6.3% year over year to $871 million due to higher commissions and fees. Commissions and fees improved 7% year over year to $867 million in the quarter.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"> **Investment income** plummeted 100% year over year to $4 million, attributable to lower net yields on cash and cash equivalents.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Total expense shot up 123% year over year to $1.6 billion, primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits, and goodwill impairment charge.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">In the quarter under review, adjusted operating income was $166 million, up 8.5% year over year. Operating margin expanded 40 basis points to 19.1%.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">**Quarterly Segment Update**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Global: Organic growth in commissions and fees was 11.6% in the quarter, while reported growth was 11.3%. Organic growth was primarily driven by better results across all lines of business.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Operating margin was 19.7%, expanding 340 basis points year over year.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">North America: Commissions and fees, on an organic basis, grew 5%, while on a reported basis grew 4.7%.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Operating margin in the quarter contracted 250 basis points to 17.2%.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">International: On an organic basis, commissions and fees increased 7.4% year over year, while on a reported basis, it increased 6.4%. Latin America reported strong double-digit growth, while Europe and UK reported mid-single digit growth. Asia recorded low single-digit growth.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Operating margin was 23.6%, contracting 270 basis points.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"> **Full year Highlights**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Adjusted net income from continuing operations of $2.58 per share were in line with the Zacks Consensus Estimate. Earnings declined 5.8% over 2011.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Including goodwill impairment charge of $2.60 per share, write-off of unamortized cash retention awards of 78 cents, 2012 cash bonus accrual of 99 cents, insurance recovery of 3 cents, loss on disposal of operations of 2 cents, India JV settlement of 6 cents, write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance and legal fees of 5 cents, deferred tax valuation allowance of 64 cents and the dilutive impact of potentially issuable shares of 6 cents, Willis Group incurred a loss of $2.58 per share, compared with an income of $1.15 in 2011.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">**Cost Savings Initiative**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Management is reviewing the organizational design and expects to reduce headcount. The review will be completed in the first quarter of 2013. As a result Willis Group expects to incur a pre-tax charge of about $35 million to $45 million in the first quarter of 2013.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Nevertheless, beginning in the second quarter, the company expects to realize cost savings, primarily through headcount reduction, of approximately $20 million to $25 million in 2013. Moreover, it expects annualized cost savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Financial Update</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Willis exited 2012 with cash and cash equivalents of $500 million, up 14.7% year over year.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Long-term debt slid 0.7% to $2.3 billion from 2011 end.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Cash flow from operating activities in 2012 was $524 million, up 19.4%.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">**Dividend Update**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">In Feb 2013, the board of directors approved a 3.7% increase in the quarterly cash dividend. Willis will pay the increased dividend of 28 cents on Apr 15, 2013 to shareholders of record as on Mar 29, 2013. The annualized dividend comes to $1.12 per share.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">**Performance of other insurance brokers**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC – Analyst Report) reported its fourth-quarter 2012 operating earnings of 52 cents per share, in line with the Zacks Consensus Estimate.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">However, the results were slightly higher than the year-ago quarter’s earnings of 46 cents per share.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Arthur J Gallagher &amp; Co. (AJG – Snapshot Report) reported earnings of 39 cents in the fourth quarter, a penny above the Zacks Consensus Estimate and up 11% year over year.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Aon plc (AON – Snapshot Report) posted earnings of $1.27 per share, exceeding the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 1.6% and the year-ago earnings by 31%.</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">**Zacks Rank**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: justify;">Willis Group currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold)</div>